[About](https://protect.bju.edu/cps/courses/cps404/notes/HTMLBasics/sample.html#about)
|
[Facilities](https://protect.bju.edu/cps/courses/cps404/notes/HTMLBasics/sample.html#facilities)

About the Department
====================

* * * * *

The Department of Computer Science was established in the Division of
Mathematical Sciences, College of Arts and Science, in the early 1980s.
Its purpose is to prepare students for graduate study in the field,
employment in industry, and full-time Christian service. In addition to
its [degree
programs](https://protect.bju.edu/cps/courses/cps404/notes/HTMLBasics/majors.aspx),
the department offers training for students, staff, and members of the
community who wish to improve their computer skills. Since its
inception, the department has helped introduce local area networking to
the campus, developed multimedia information delivery systems, and
established the University's web site.

Facilities
----------

In addition to the general-access labs available to all BJU students, a
computer lab is available exclusively to computer science/engineering
majors and minors. Several networked workstations host the Microsoft
Windows XP Professional and Linux operating systems (the current
workstation configuration features a 3.2 GHz Intel Pentium CPU with 1 GB
RAM, 40 GB hard drive, DVD ROM/CD Writer combo drive, and dual monitor
display). The department administers its own network with Windows 2003
and Linux servers.

All computer science students receive an Internet e-mail account and
have filtered access to the WorldWide Web by using the University's
high-speed Internet connection.

Activities
----------

The department sponsors an annual programming contest. Begun in the
spring of 1990, the contest is open to all University students.
Contestants have four hours to solve a series of problems of graduated
difficulty. The winner is recognized at the annual University awards
assembly, and generally receives a software development tool as a prize.
